Added experimental `databricks_sql_table` resource to manage tables in the Unity Catalog (#2213)
databricks/terraform-provider-databricks: docs/resources/sql_table.md

---
subcategory: "Unity Catalog"
---
# databricks_sql_table (Resource)

Within a metastore, Unity Catalog provides a 3-level namespace for organizing data: Catalogs, databases (also called schemas), and tables / views.

A `databricks_sql_table` is contained within [databricks_schema](schema.md).

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "databricks_catalog" "sandbox" {
  metastore_id = databricks_metastore.this.id
  name         = "sandbox"
  comment      = "this catalog is managed by terraform"
  properties = {
    purpose = "testing"
  }
}

resource "databricks_schema" "things" {
  catalog_name = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  name         = "things"
  comment      = "this database is managed by terraform"
  properties = {
    kind = "various"
  }
}

resource "databricks_sql_table" "thing" {
  provider           = databricks.workspace
  name               = "quickstart_table"
  catalog_name       = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  schema_name        = databricks_schema.things.id
  table_type         = "MANAGED"
  data_source_format = "DELTA"
  storage_location   = ""
  column {
    name      = "id"

>     position  = 0

Reviewer: do we want to infer the position of the column from terraform list or do we want to expose `position` argument in the column block?

Author: I was leaning the same way, current state is a bit verbose.

Author: position is now removed

    type_name = "INT"
    type_text = "int"

>     type_json = "{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"integer\",\"nullable\":true,\"metadata\":{}}"

Reviewer: to we want to keep it or do we want to suppress diff it?..

Reviewer: @adamcain-db can we be fine with just this `type_json` from spark runtime?

Author: I settled on `type_text` here instead of the other fields, let me know if i need to support more.

  properties = {
    purpose = "testing"
  }
}

resource "databricks_schema" "things" {
  catalog_name = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  name         = "things"
  comment      = "this database is managed by terraform"
  properties = {
    kind = "various"
  }
}

resource "databricks_sql_table" "thing" {
  provider           = databricks.workspace
  name               = "quickstart_table"
  catalog_name       = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  schema_name        = databricks_schema.things.id
  table_type         = "MANAGED"
  data_source_format = "DELTA"
  storage_location   = ""

  column {
    name      = "id"
    type_text = "int"
  }
  column {
    name      = "name"
    type_text = "varchar(64)"
    comment   = "name of thing"
  }
  comment = "this table is managed by terraform"
}

resource "databricks_sql_table" "thing_view" {
  provider           = databricks.workspace
  name               = "quickstart_table_view"
  catalog_name       = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  schema_name        = databricks_schema.things.id
  table_type         = "VIEW"

  view_definition    = format("SELECT name FROM %s WHERE id == 1", databricks_sql_table.thing.id)

>   comment = "this view is managed by terraform"

Reviewer: please also provide example with setting of `cluster_id` property explicitly - I think implicit cluster has a risk of race conditions :)

---
subcategory: "Unity Catalog"
---
# databricks_sql_table (Resource)

Within a metastore, Unity Catalog provides a 3-level namespace for organizing data: Catalogs, databases (also called schemas), and tables / views.

> A `databricks_sql_table` is contained within [databricks_schema](schema.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `databricks_sql_table` is contained within [databricks_schema](schema.md), and can represent either a managed table, an external table or a view.

This resource creates and updates the Unity Catalog table/view by executing the necessary SQL queries on a special auto-terminating cluster it would create for this operation.
```

  table_type         = "MANAGED"
  data_source_format = "DELTA"
  storage_location   = ""

  column {
    name      = "id"
    type      = "int"
  }
  column {
    name      = "name"
    type      = "string"
    comment   = "name of thing"
  }
  comment = "this table is managed by terraform"
}

resource "databricks_sql_table" "thing_view" {
  provider           = databricks.workspace
  name               = "quickstart_table_view"
  catalog_name       = databricks_catalog.sandbox.id
  schema_name        = databricks_schema.things.id
  table_type         = "VIEW"
  cluster_id         = "0423-201305-xsrt82qn"

  view_definition    = format("SELECT name FROM %s WHERE id == 1", databricks_sql_table.thing.id)

  comment = "this view is managed by terraform"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - Name of table relative to parent catalog and schema. Change forces creation of a new resource.
* `catalog_name` - Name of parent catalog
* `schema_name` - Name of parent Schema relative to parent Catalog
* `table_type` - Distinguishes a view vs. managed/external Table. `MANAGED`, `EXTERNAL` or `VIEW`. Change forces creation of a new resource.

> * `storage_location` - (Optional) URL of storage location for Table data (required for EXTERNAL Tables. For Managed Tables, if the path is provided it needs to be a Staging Table path that has been generated through the Staging Table API, otherwise should be empty). Not supported for `VIEW` table_type.

Reviewer 2: The Staging Table API won't apply here
```suggestion
* `storage_location` - (Optional) URL of storage location for Table data (required for EXTERNAL Tables). Not supported for `VIEW` or `MANAGED` table_type.
```

> * `data_source_format` - (Optional) External tables are supported in multiple data source formats. The string constants identifying these formats are `DELTA`, `CSV`, `JSON`, `AVRO`, `PARQUET`, `ORC`, `TEXT`. Change forces creation of a new resource. Not supported for `MANAGED` tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `data_source_format` - (Optional) External tables are supported in multiple data source formats. The string constants identifying these formats are `DELTA`, `CSV`, `JSON`, `AVRO`, `PARQUET`, `ORC`, `TEXT`. Change forces creation of a new resource. Not supported for `MANAGED` tables or `VIEW`.
```
